(upbeat music)
All right let's talk about
error handling strategies for async-await.
Because there is no dot then, then, then,
it's not as easy as just chaining a .catch
onto the end of a promise chain
in order to deal with what's going on.
So I'm going to go into, I believe,
four different ways that you can
do error handling in async-await,
and then I'll tell you, like what I would use in most cases.
So let's go into our playground and make a new file.
And actually let's just go to async-await
and just copy that into async-await-error-handling.
And let's go and just delete everything
but our two functions of wait and makePizza.
Since we want to get rid of makeDinner
and our go function.
Okay, so our makePizza function
if it includes pineapple it will reject
because there is an error, right?
So we'll make our own function down here,
function, we'll call it go.
And make sure we call that right away I always forget.
And then inside of it we'll say
const pizza is equal to makePizza
and we'll try to throw a pineapple on there.
Now when I open this up.
Okay so if we add async-await to that, does that fix it?
Is that going to make pineapple pizza any more of a sin?
Or any less of a sin?
I don't think so.
No, it's exact same error, right?
If we were to try to consol.log the pizza here
we don't get anything, we don't even get the error.
So it's not like it will return the error to you.
So, there are four ways that we could sort of handle this,
error handling.
The first one, or the first two are with try and catch.
So, what try and catch are in JavaScript is
(laugh) it's in the name.
Try a bunch of stuff and you sort of
wrap it in this safety blanket
and then if anything goes wrong,
you catch the error and handle it.
So the way that it works is you can
do it inside of the function
when you actually go ahead and call it.
So we say try, and I'll put this in here,
so try to do that and then if not we catch
and it gives us the error
and in that case we can console.log the error.
This is where you would display
some sort of UI to your user that something went wrong,
you would maybe send off that data
to some error tracking service,
doing all of that with you right there.
Now if I were to refresh it.
Says, "Seriously?
"Get out."
So in here we can console.log, "Ohhh nooo!"
It says, "Ohhh nooo!
"Seriously?
"Get out."
So what happened is,
any code that tries to happen inside of a try
if anything goes wrong inside of here,
this is sort of like a safe zone,
it won't break your entire application
it will just fail over to the .catch.
And this works with anything, not just the async-away.
So, if I were to take window.doesNotExist,
like that's a method that does not exist, right?
And we were run it, it says, "Type Error!
"Window.doesNotExist is not a function."
You see it didn't break our JavaScript
because we wrapped it in this beautiful safety blanket
of a try and catch.
One downside to this is that it
kind of messes up the whole beautiful, beautiful?
Part of async-await,
which is you don't have to have a whole lot
of brackets or callbacks and things like that.
And you have to wrap the whole thing in a try and a catch.
So a benefit to that is that you can have multiple promise,
you could try to make multiple pineapple pizza's in here,
and if either one of them failed
it would all be caught by the same try/catch.
So another way that we can do that is just to,
what I call mix and match.
Meaning that we can use the async-await
but we can use the promise syntax for the error handling.
So we'll go, and lets get rid of
this try and catch all together.
Lets make a little function here called handleError
and that would have our error.
And inside of your error you would
display some sort of UI to your user,
you'd send it off to an error handling service,
something like that.
Just so you know exactly what's going on
on your clients side.
In our case we're just console.loging, "ohhh nooo"
and console.log the error.
Now what you can do is you can chain a .catch
onto the end of makePizza and just pass handleError.
Now what that will do is when it runs it will give us,
"Ohhh nooo.
"Seriously?
"Get Out."
We're sort of mix and matching the best of both worlds.
So, we're using await to get the data out of the promise
instead of a .then
but we're still using the older syntax,
which is a .catch onto the end of the function.
And this is helpful for when you want to
handle the error at the time that you define the function.
So you handle it inside of the function.
Sometimes you want to handle the error
when you call the actual function.
So if that's the case
we wouldn't handle it inside of the definition,
but we'd go down to where we call our async function
and change a .catch onto the end of here
and catch and handle the error there.
In your refresh you see
it's the exact same thing that happened.
What's kind of interesting about that
is you can also catch things that are unrelated.
Like again window.doesNotExist
it will catch those errors as well in here.
Now you might be saying,
"Wes, you said .then and .catch could only be used
"on functions that return a promise.
"But here you are using .catch on a function."
This doesn't return a promise, does it?
Like here let's return the pizza from this function
so this is a async go,
return the pizza
and if I were to say, like const result is equal to go
and console.log the result, what do we get?
Are we going to get the pizza?
Are we going to get nothing?
We get a promise, what?
So this is a very important thing
about promises and async-await
is that when you mark a function as async
it will immediately return a promise to you,
when the function is not marked as async
it's a regular function that will
return the data that you want.
But when you mark it as async,
that function will then return a promise.
So what's possible is that you can await
async functions as well
because they in themselves are promises.
So you could do something like this
.then(result) console.log the result
and catch the error.
Oh result is not defined line 40,
oh that's because this console.log is here,
it should go inside of this now.
And now in our case it will go to the catch,
but if that was pepperoni
then we would actually get access to the peperoni pizza,
okay?
So again, asynchronous functions
will always return a promise themselves,
which means we can use the .catch or the .then syntax
on async functions if we want.
Why would that be useful?
Well often you'll have a function
that does a few things with promises inside of it
but then you want to wait for that
entire function to finish returning its data
and if that's the case
then you can await or use a .then and catch on it.
So similarly I could say async function goGo
and I could await const result is equal to await go.
And I could take this out of here.
And you can await asynchronous functions as well.
This will probably error,
because we have pineapple.
It's not running at all, because I forgot to call it.
There we go, uncaught.
So how would you then handle that?
Well .catch and then pass it a handleError handler.
And we still have it.
So you can nest promises as deep as you want.
And it's pretty common for you to have a good number
of your functions marked as async
and you sort of just have promises
happening inside of promises.
We'll go into a lot more examples of that
that might be a little bit confusing to you right now.
So let's bring that back here,
we'll say go and I'll drive a catch and handle error.
So this is probably the one that I use most often,
it's sort of the best of both worlds,
you can just use your await like you want
and then catch them at call time.
The only difference of that is calling it inside of here,
that's useful if you need to do something
with the error inside of that function
like display a special Modal Box at the time of definition
rather then at the time of call.
The last way to handle an error with async-await
is called a higher order function.
And we've talked about this a couple of time now.
So what is a higher order function?
Well it's a function that returns another function.
So the way that it works is that
you go ahead and define all of your functions
just as if you were never to have any errors
and quiet honestly that's the way
that I like to write my code
is that I just write the async functions,
and I don't worry about error handling
inside of those functions.
Then when it comes time to calling that function
you have two options,
you can catch it at run time
or you can make a safe function with a high order function.
And the way that works is
you can make a function called makeSafe
and that takes in a function
we'll call it an fn
and what that will do is it will
return another function which then
calls our original function
this might not make sense,
it didn't make sense to me for years.
So it totally, don't sweat it if it doesn't.
But you can chain the .catch on to the end
and you can handle the error there.
Probably makes sense to pass in the errorHandler as well.
ErrorHandler.
And then just catch it there.
So what we just did there is we made a safer function
and then what you want to do is like go,
that is unsafe.
And of course if we run that it will say, "Uncaught error."
But we can say const safeGo is equal to makeSafe(go)
and then we also have to pass it in error handler as well
which is our handleError function.
So what this will do is it will take in a function
and then return a new function
that is just your original function
with a catch tacked onto the end of it.
And now we refresh,
here let me comment out that go initially,
now we have this thing called safeGo
which is just a function that has
a catch tacked onto the end of it.
And then we can go ahead and call it
without having to worry about anything.
Woo, look at it, it works just fine.
Now why would that be better then catching at this time?
More often then not I have a function like safeGo
or a function that does a specific task
and I use that, I don't know,
30 times throughout my application.
And if I have to write the code
to handle the error 30 different times,
that's a little bit cumbersome.
So what you can do is you can
just make the safe function once
with this, the thing right here,
and then you can carry this thing around
and run it whenever you want,
knowing that the error handler will have been attached on.
So, those are a couple of different options
that you have there.
which ones do I use?
I use a mix.
Mostly this one right here.
And then when I'm in Node Express Land
I use this quiet a bit,
because this is getting,
this is a totally different course
and I do this in my Node course as well,
but the error handling in Node
is basically show a page and tell the user what went wrong.
And I can take all of my functions
that display all of the different pages
and I can just let them all do that
exact same error handling.
So that is the different ways,
let's get into some more examples in the next video.